Robots are continuing on with our discussions about various rules, the method overriding and so forth,
let's create a new class and call it clashing methods.
And what we're going to do is test out some of these statements that are made in code.
Crushing method's.
Right, I can see here with this code for clashing methods, what I've done is started off with first
interface, which is an interface with a private method called Bhattarai.
You've got a second interface called Second Interface, which has a static method method I obviously
implied to be public as well as fairly the class clashing methods simply called the static method on
the interface.
So let's run that.
You can say we get the relevant output consistent with the code being executed from Laurine 18.
So let's test some statements I made in the previous video relating to a method and an interface, whether
it's public, which is implied on an interface and static, specifically, does the static method override
a super interfaces default method because this is not permitted.
So let's start by adding an extended clause to our second interface.
So we're going to extend this interface.
They because the method method I.
In our first devices, private is still valid, but let's test the invalid scenario, so to do that,
we need to change first interfaces today.
We'll change that from private to default.
And after that, there's a component of their static method, detonate in second interface, cannot
override instance method method, a insert interface.
So basically a static method cannot override a default method of a super interface.
But let's get back up to our first interface.
We've got to change that again to be static specifically.
And this is fine, because the super interface is static, method is not inherited.
All right, so moving on, let's now consider this question, is the static method being invoked outside
of the interface type without using the interface type qualifier?
And its so again, this is not permitted to the test this.
We're going to start by changing the clear clashing methods class to extend the second interface in
here.
Sorry to implement it extends implements second interface, and they will come down at some code to
the main method, first thought method, I you could probably say yes, I was taught me that we weren't
getting any help for intelligence.
This is telling us that this time it is the cause of a compiler error.
Can't find method.
I basically cannot call a static method on an interface through an instance of an object, including
using the disqualifier.
Even when the objects class implements the interface, you must always qualify the method with its interface
type, as I've done on line twenty six and do this.
All right, so moving on, let's test each of these statements, is the interface method a default method?
Yes, answers to any of the following questions are compile time errors.
Firstly, does it override any of Javadoc Langdell objects, public methods or.
We reviewed this in the previous video right at the start.
The first code sample.
So I won't repeat myself here.
But the second one is, does it clash with an unrelated interfaces default method signature in an implement
clause?
So let's look at this question next to the staff.
We need to change our interfaces.
I'm going to change the first interface, the method to become default instead of static.
And for the second interface, I want to remove the extensive first interface now, and I want to make
this to folks as well.
So looking at this now, these two interfaces have no relationship, so let's keep moving on.
So let's change the declaration of the clashing methods to implement both first and second interfaces.
And we also need to change this law before we look at the era on 20 to no longer calling a static method,
change it to first it was to find reform that works.
But we have got a pilot error on the declaration of the class.
The classic method inherits unrelated defaults for Mithril from Type's first interface and second interface.
All right.
So let's remove the second interface from the class implements.
But let's now test this statement, is the default method being invoked directly in a static context?
And we did actually see that so we could just make that method, I.
Not static method method, I cannot be referenced from a static context, compiler error, because default
methods are instant's methods and cannot be invoked from a static context.
In this case, it's the static main method.
But finally, let's test out these statements, firstly, method selection is prioritized, determine
what classes are in the hierarchy of the class, where the method is being invoked and what interfaces
are in the hierarchy and the implements clause remembering that a class method is selected first.
The more specific interfaces method is selected next.
And if there is a crash, it must provide an implementation of the method in the class.
So I'm going to undo that last error and we're going to create a new class here called this one method
selection.
Code is the code.
So this card contains, firstly, a class called super class with a single public method to something,
as you can see there.
We've got an interface called less specific interface with a default method.
Do something with the same signature as the super classes.
Do something method if you on down, we've got another interface code, more specific interface, which
extends the less specific interface and also has a default method.
Do something with the same signature as the superclass class and the interface code, a specific interface.
And also we go down.
We've got a public class here, method selection, and you can see that that extends our super class
called super class and implements the more specific interface with an instance method which invokes
the method to something.
So the question at this point in the method call on line thirty four, which method is being called?
If you recall the questions, a class method is selected first, so let's promise to confirm that is
the case.
And you can see that's confirmed is the code from our superclass, do something, it's being executed.
So let's now have a go at changing the declaration of the method selection class.
We can remove the extended clause, but leaving the implements to the more specific interface.
So you can say now just implements the more specific interface.
So citruses, the next point that the more specific interface method is selected next is check that
if that's the case.
More specific to something, Senator, more specific interfaces, interface output line twenty 22,
showing that the do something method in that interface was invoked.
Let's now make a change again to our method declaration on line twenty six.
We're going to implement both interfaces.
So I'm going to put less specific interface comma just across the two lines are more readable.
So we're now implementing both interfaces.
If we run this again, we're trying to confirm that the method, the more specific interface method
should be selected.
And if we run this.
You see, we've still got a more specific interface do something method being invoked here, so it confirms
that the method in that interface is still selected, even if both interfaces are implemented, which
was the case here.
And again, bearing in mind we have got a relationship there because the more specific interface is
extending the less specific interface.
So that's why we were checking.
Now we've got to remove the relationship between more specific interface and less specific interface
by removing this extends Claw's.
By doing that, you probably have seen that there was an error that popped up immediately.
And this relates to the point that if there is a clash, you must provide an implementation of the method
in the class and the area here with a selection inherits unrelated to do something from type's less
specific interface and more specific interface.
So you can see now that this change introduced a compiler error on the class declaration of method selection.
Method selection inherits the unrelated defaults to something.
So you might think that we can change the Caldari something method to do something about this.
Say less specific interface.
Super.
Dot, do something.
But alas, it doesn't fix the error.
So problem, in fact, what we need to do is create a method that overrides the classic method, even
if that method does nothing to do that to a public void, do something.
And literally it's going to be empty.
By doing that, you can say now the compiler errors disappeared, we can run the code.
And we could check out the less specific interfaces method was called, and that's because of what we
were taught target specific interface, not super to do something online, 34.
So this is the end of the video next year.
Going to be presented with a couple of quick questions and we're going to move on to the generics and
collections section.
Good luck and I'll see you after the quiz in the next section.